---
layout: post
title: Third of May
date: 2021-05-16
archives: "2021"
tags: []
author: Mike McGann
featured_image: /post/2021-05-16/featured.jpg
---

It is the third Sunday of May. Jacob was supposed to come over today for some
pizza and pinball but there was some kind of miscommunication. I said we should
meet up around noon. He thought we were meeting up around dinner time. So we
ended up not getting together today. We will try to do it again sometime in
June.

I made enough dough for three pizzas today but only ended up making one. The
other two went to the freezer for later. The dough was looking nice straight
out of the beer fridge:

![Dough](dough.tn.jpg)

I pre-mixed the cheese blend again today. I forgot to weigh the mozzarella so I
used the value shown on the wrapper and measured out 45 g of cheddar and
monterey jack.

The light in the oven is out again. I feel like I just replaced it and I
remember it was a long search to find one. I'll have to look up my notes to see
where I bought it from last time.

I cleaned out the oven a bit before starting the preheat. When I say "a bit",
that means that I pulled out the dust buster and sucked up all the charred
remains that had fallen to the oven floor. I also pulled out the stone to give
it a good cleaning too. It has taken some abuse during the adventures in
baking:

![Stone](stone.tn.jpg)

I kept the pizza to a simple cheese only one. The dough was puffy today. At this
point the dough had been sitting out on the counter for about three hours:

![Puffy](puffy.tn.jpg)

I didn't try to pop the bubbles as I was in the mood for some nice big ones
on the crust. All dressed up and ready to go:

![Cheese Before](cheese_before.tn.jpg)

Out of the oven and onto the pan:

![Cheese After](cheese_after.tn.jpg)

I asked for bubbles, and bubbles I got. I did notice that there is some cheese
separation in the lower left part of the pie and that is the tale tell sign of
cheddar. Sliced up, plated, and with some oregano and hots sprinkled on:

![Slice](slice.tn.jpg)

The underside cooked well today but I might start moving the stone lower in the
oven to see if that makes a difference:

![Underbelly](underbelly.tn.jpg)

I thought the taste of cheddar came out too strong in this pizza. I am not sure
if I put too much in or if I didn't mix it well enough. It didn't stop me from
eating it but it did detract from the experience. I think this cheese might be
too sharp for me on a pizza. Next time I'm at the store I'll have to see what
the options are.

The bubbles came out looking and tasting great:

![Bubble](bubble.tn.jpg)

I'll be taking a break from baking pizza the next too weeks but should return
in June.

---

I also made some pizza earlier this week using dough that I had frozen from a
few weeks ago. I pulled it out of the freezer around lunch time and this is how
it looked at dinner time:

![Unfrozen Dough](unfrozen_dough.tn.jpg)

It was definitely thawed enough by then and maybe a little too much. The dough
ball was bigger than I was expecting. I started stretching it out and it really
stretched out far:

![Super Big Before](super_big_before.tn.jpg)

I had to bunch it in a bit to keep it on the peel. I have a feeling I didn't
properly measure this one and just used the "leftover" amount of dough. This
ended up being a big pizza:

![Super Big After](super_big_after.tn.jpg)

It didn't even fit on the pan. I ate all of except for two slices. Zach had one
slice and the last one was tossed. I was tempted to eat it but that enough
calories already. 


