---
layout: post
title: Second of October
date: 2020-10-11
archives: "2020"
tags: []
author: Mike McGann
featured_image: /post/2020-10-11/featured.jpg
---

It is the second Sunday of October. Erin, Chris, and Elliott came up for a
visit today and it was the first time I've seen them since Christmas of last
year. I've rented a [pinball
machine](https://sternpinball.com/game/ghostbusters/) for two months and told
them they had to come up and play some games while I had it. Here is Elliott
earning an extra ball:

![Elliott Extra Ball](elliott.tn.jpg)

Playing pinball works up an appetite so I decided to make some pizza for them.
As I pulled out the cheese from the fridge we noticed that I had purchased the
whole milk variety instead of the skim milk. The whole milk is fine and tastes
great but it melts and browns differently and I really wanted to keep with the
cheese I currently know best. Terri and Erin ran out to the store to get some
of the skim milk cheese and I think they were glad to get out of the house for
a bit.

I asked if there were any special requests for toppings and Erin replied with
the favorite line that Niles, Mac, and I used at
[Ponzetti's](https://www.facebook.com/ponzettis/): "The toppings are on the
table". We were strict in our philosophy of Zetti's that you had to always
order a cheese pizza and the only allowed toppings were the oregano, red
pepper, and parmesan provided on the table.

I made the 1000 g dough recipe for six dough balls at 280 g each. The first
pizza was cheese and came out like this:

![Pizza #1](pizza_1.tn.jpg)

The reviews were good on that one. And it even looks really good too. Erin was
remarking on how difficult it is for her to launch the pizza off a metal peel
and wanted to try with my wooden one instead. She was having some issues
keeping the dough circular while stretching and the end result looked like a
[moon of Pluto](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moons_of_Pluto). It still tasted
really good. Shapes have no flavors.

![Pizza #2](pizza_2.tn.jpg)

She launched that pizza right into the oven like a pro. The wooden peel makes it so much easier. Next was the pepperoni crowd pleaser. Going in:

![Pizza #3 - Before](pizza_3_before.tn.jpg)

I saw a video where the pizza baker was pre-cooking the pepperoni in the microwave for around 15 seconds to pull out some of the grease before cooking.
I tried that for a bit, but to be honest, the pepperoni grease tastes really good. This is pepperoni straight out of the package and placed on top. Out of the oven it looked like this:

![Pizza #3 - After](pizza_3_after.tn.jpg)

Everyone was hungry enough for one more pizza and I talked them into a
pepperoni, onion, and banana pepper pizza:

![Pizza #4](pizza_4.tn.jpg)

We were done for the day but there were two dough balls left. I practiced some
dough tossing techniques. Maybe one of these days I'll stretch an actual pizza
that way. Then I tried to stretch it as much as I could without breaking it:

![Stretch](stretch.tn.jpg)

Erin said I should have made a Halloween mask out of that. 



