---
layout: post
title: First of December
date: 2021-12-05
archives: "2021"
tags: []
author: Mike McGann
featured_image: /post/2021-12-05/featured.jpg
---

It is the first Sunday of December. It is a great day for making pizza before
the holiday rush is upon us. It has been some time since we last had some
Detroit-style pizza so I thought that would be good for today's agenda. I had
to be somewhere at 4pm so I told Niles and Ken that we should start promptly at
noon.

This dough recipe uses the fast acting yeast with a thirty minute rest before
baking. I wanted to make enough dough for at least three pizzas so I started
one batch for two pizzas at 11:20am and then the second batch after the first
pizza landed in the oven.

The dough was really sticky today. I put a bit of extra flour in while it was
mixing but it still wasn't enough:

![Sticky Dough](sticky_dough.tn.jpg)

I kept putting more flour in until it became workable:

![Not So Sticky Dough](not_so_sticky_dough.tn.jpg)

I think the recipe provided by Buddy's simply has too much water in it so I'll
have to adjust the numbers a bit and see what works better.

Can openers these days are horrible. This is the third can opener we've had in
the past two years and this one barely works anymore:

![Can Opener](can_opener.tn.jpg)

It was too much effort to open that can that I tossed the opener into the
garbage bin. I saw that a new can opener has appeared in the drawer but it was
too fancy for me. I couldn't figure out how to get it to work:

![Fancy Can Opener](fancy_can_opener.tn.jpg)

I used the mixer grater attachment today for the cheese and the plastic hopper
broke off of that. I wasn't having a luck during prep today.

![Broken Grater](broken_grater.tn.jpg)

I finished up the cheese with a hand grater and quickly remembered why I got
the mixer attachment in the first place. Grating that kind of cheese is not fun
at all. Maybe Santa will bring a new one.

The first pizza, as usual, was a plain cheese one. It looked like this all dressed up and ready to go:

![Cheese 1 Before](cheese_1_before.tn.jpg)

It was placed on the stove top burner for 5 minutes and then sent to the oven for another 15 minutes. After that, it looked like this:

![Cheese 1 After](cheese_1_after.tn.jpg)

The side looked great even though the thickness was a bit uneven at times:

![Cheese 1 Side](cheese_1_side.tn.jpg)

This pizza was almost there but it just fell short of excellence. The center
was a bit under done and the bottom crust was a bit too soft. The sauce tasted
really good though. I kept with the doubled amount of black pepper that Niles
liked. I though I had garlic but it had gone bad so I substituted the garlic
cloves with minced garlic.

We decided to up the baking time for the second pizza. Before the bake:

![Cheese 2 Before](cheese_2_before.tn.jpg)

We added an additional minute to the stove top time and two for the oven. This
one came out with a lot more char on the side:

![Cheese 2 After](cheese_2_after.tn.jpg)

This was cooked all the way though but that char was a bit much. It is possible
to have too much of a good thing. The bottom was still a bit too soft.

The third pizza was a vegan cheese one for Ken and I decided to put more oil in
the pan to see if that would get the bottom to brown some more. I forgot to get
a before picture but I do have one as it came out of the oven:

![Vegan Cheese](vegan_cheese.tn.jpg)

Ken really liked the melt on the cheese and said this was the best Sunday Pizza
Kitchen pizza he has had so far. It looks like that the additional oil helped out as this was the best looking under belly of the day:

![Under Belly](under_belly.tn.jpg)

We were all full at this point so there was no fourth pizza. I put the
remaining dough in a zip lock bag and tossed it into the freezer for a pizza
later this week.

