---
layout: post
title: First of March 
date: 2021-03-07
archives: "2021"
tags: []
author: Mike McGann
featured_image: /post/2021-03-07/featured.jpg
---

It is the first Sunday of March. Maria and Matt came over to hangout at
lunch time. If it is lunch time and it is a Sunday, there is a good chance
there is going to be pizza. Even more so when Maria brings her own sauce:

![Sauce](sauce.tn.jpg)

Terri doesn't like my sauce so I think she told Maria that her sauce was
mandatory in order to participate in pizza day. They also brought over some
fresh mozzarella:

![Fresh Moz](fresh_moz.tn.jpg)

I made enough dough for six pizzas since Zach and Ben were each interested in a
pie for themselves. I have to admit that I did get lazy with the dough and used
the stand mixer instead of kneading it by hand. I put the timer on for ten
minutes and I stopped it a bit early because I could smell that the mixer was
starting to struggle. I think that was too long. The dough was tougher than
usual and I think it was overworked. I'll try five minutes the next time that
I'm lazy.

The first pizza was the standard cheese pizza. I'm not used to working with
fresh mozzarella so I wasn't sure exactly how much to put on. I thought
this was enough:

![Topping Moz](topping_moz.tn.jpg)

The cheese is going to melt and spread? Well, it wasn't quite enough:

![Cheese](cheese.tn.jpg)

Some slices turned out fine but others were just too devoid of cheese. I also
pulled this out a bit early because the cheese was looking like it was done. It
was done, but the crust wasn't quite there yet. Maria's sauce was good and was
the highlight of this pizza. Everyone liked this one but with the overworked
dough, the undercooked crust, and the splotchy cheese, I think they were just
being nice.

The next one was the classic toppings pizza: pepperoni, onion, and black
olives. More cheese went on this time. I forgot to get a photo before it went
in the oven, but I did get a photo once it was in the oven:

![Combo In](combo_in.tn.jpg)

That was a few minutes into the bake since the crust is looking puffy and well
defined on the edges. The chunks of mozzarella get lost in those toppings but I
guarantee it is there. Eight minutes later:

![Combo Out - Good](combo_good_light.tn.jpg)

That is a pie that I was proud to serve up. Everyone at the table seemed happy
with that one too:

![Table](table.tn.jpg)

What I wasn't happy with was the first photograph that I took of that pizza:

![Combo Out - Bad](combo_bad_light.tn.jpg)

Yes, that is the exact same pizza. What is different between the two
photographs? The lighting. We have a microwave mounted above the oven and it
has some lights which you can turn on to illuminate the stove top. I usually
have it on the "low" light setting which is the good photograph that you saw
first. The photo directly above was with the "high" light setting. Never
underestimate the effects that lighting has on a photo. After all, a photograph
is just light.

The pizza was delicious but a little soupy. Terri said it was because of the
onions. Maria thought it was due to the sauce. I think it was from the
abundance of fresh mozzarella. Anyway, the DOP pizza from 2 Amy's is a bit
soupy so I guess it is a good thing. The bake on the crust was much better this
time.

The next pizza was a repeat but with some shredded low-moisture mozzarella
mixed in with the fresh:

![The Next Pizza](pizza2.tn.jpg)

What I find interesting with this pizza is how the olives got submerged in the
cheese at the bottom but not at the top. I wonder how that happened.

That pizza was actually the fourth. The first was a pepperoni pizza for Ben but
the photograph was ruined by the lighting. The last and fifth pizza was another
pepperoni for Zach:

![Pep](pep.tn.jpg)

I botched one of the doughs so that was all six dough balls for today. Overall,
it was a good pizza day but I was a bit off my game. Every pizza is a new
learning experience and that is what makes it fun.

---

Leftovers from last week I baked up on Wednesday. I pulled the frozen dough out
of the freezer about two hours before bake time. I placed the frozen rock of
dough in a pan and then covered it. I almost dropped that on my foot. I think I
would have broken a toe if I did.

![Frozen](frozen.tn.jpg)

Two hours ended up being a good time. It may not have been warmed enough to
stretch by hand but it was good enough for the rolling pin. Dressed up the
pizza looked like this:

![Ledo Stretched](ledo_stretched.tn.jpg)

Out of the oven:

![Ledo Baked](ledo_baked.tn.jpg)

I also had pasta twice this week and I successfully used up the bottle of Ledo
sauce. It is great on pasta too. A carb heavy week, but for me, most of them
are like that.

